```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <mpi.h>
```
These are the header files that are required for standard input/output and MPI function calls.

```c
int main(int argc, char** argv) {
```
This is the starting point of the program, which declares the main function that takes two arguments: argc and argv. These arguments are used to pass command-line arguments to the program.

```c
int size, rank, message;
```
These are integer variables used to store the size and rank of the MPI communicator, as well as the message to be passed between the two processes.

```c
MPI_Init(&argc, &argv);
```
This initializes the MPI environment and sets up the communication between the processes. The &argc and &argv arguments are pointers to the argc and argv variables passed to the main function.

```c
MPI_Comm_size(MPI_COMM_WORLD, &size);
MPI_Comm_rank(MPI_COMM_WORLD, &rank);
```
These functions retrieve the size and rank of the MPI communicator. MPI_COMM_WORLD is the default communicator that includes all the processes in the program.

```c
if (rank == 0) {
    message = 17;
    MPI_Send(&message, 1, MPI_INT, 1, 0, MPI_COMM_WORLD);
    printf("Process 0 sent message %d to process 1.\n", message);
} else if (rank == 1) {
    MPI_Recv(&message, 1, MPI_INT, 0, 0, MPI_COMM_WORLD, MPI_STATUS_IGNORE);
    printf("Process 1 received message %d from process 0.\n", message);
}
```
This conditional statement checks the rank of the current process. If the rank is 0, it sets the message variable to 17, sends the message to process 1 using MPI_Send, and prints a message to the console. If the rank is 1, it receives the message from process 0 using MPI_Recv, prints a message to the console, and stores the message in the message variable.

```c
MPI_Finalize();
```
This function finalizes the MPI environment and releases all the resources allocated by the MPI library.

```c
return 0;
```
This line is the end of the main function and returns the integer value 0 to the operating system, indicating that the program executed successfully.